# Image-Classification-Using-Deep-Convolutional-Neural-Network-CNN-
Image Classification is one of the most challenging task for artificial intelligence study. Using TensorFlow and Keras library, I have created a model using multiple hidden layers. The training session have been carried out by feeding thousands of data (raw image files) and  hyperparameters were optimized after each of the session. Sigmoid and Rectified Linear Unit(ReLU) activation functions are used for two different set of layers, optimizer is chosen to be 'Adam' Optimizer. It has been found that the in-sample accuracy comes around 88% and loss is around 16%, for the validation set of data accuracy and loss are 76% and 78% respectively after 10 epochs. Later I have used TensorBoard library and set the training condition again and to visualize graphically the variation between epoch loss, accuracy, validation loss, accuracy and each number of epoch(iteration). Interestingly it has been observed that the validation loss starts to increase unto 6th iteration and after that it again decreases. After final training the in-sample accuracy is found to be  almost 94% whereas validation accuracy has been extracted to be 78%. The model is thereafter ready to predict (binary classification of Cats and Dogs images) the outside test data with 94% score of accurate prediction.
The datsaset was downloaded from Kaggle(Cats and Dogs) data directory. It conatins tons of images(captured) of Cats as wll as of Dogs, my model was trained twice
first using 3 hidden layes and then using TensorBoard callbacks with ignificant increment in the accuracy. It succesfully classified the outside test data(unknown image)
and predict the images of Cats and Dogs with more than 90% training accuracy.
